hi there this is Jeff from DC honeybees
com last time I made a video about be
food we were talking about be fondant
and those fondant containers are up on
the hives up up on the roof and we look
forward to seeing in a week or so if the
bees have taken to it at all I also
mention that I was going to try
something else on to other hives I have
the just the plain table sugar version
of winter feeding and so what I've done
is or what I'm doing here today is
infusing some sugar with some lemon
essence as a way of drawing bees up to
the food source so take a look and see
what you think I'm starting by zesting
this lemon i'm using this micro plane
here but i don't think you need to use
one of these you don't need to be too
exact with it but the idea is to get the
topmost layer of lemon where the
essential oils of the peeler located and
where it's not so wet that will cause
the sugar to clump up when you put it in
the blender to mix and it's also a very
strong and long-lasting sent so it won't
evaporate like Oran or like the juice of
the lemon may and I'm doing one whole
lemon here just because and I've got ten
pounds of sugar into which I will
introduce the lemon scented sugar
will exist at that lemon as you can see
here that's about the zest of one large
lemon and remember the reason we're
using lemon is we're trying to give the
bees a sent to home in on in on home and
on so they know that there's a food
source nearby which will be the
granulated sugar with this essence mixed
in and if you could smell it right now
you know they'll be able to smell it
because it's very strong to this blender
are going to add just a little bit of
sugar call it about a cup or dryness
down in with the lemon essence
need a
make sure the lemon zest is
well incorporated into this sugar
this was not chunky
we're going to take our trusty pot put a
two gallon pot put half hour sugar in
and our blended mix of sugar and lemon
peel sometimes it gets little sticky on
the bottom that's okay just knock it out
your day idea here is to make sure all
the central oils are evenly distributed
throughout the sugar to the bees can
smell it that are drawn to it okay I'm
stirring your first batch or the first
bag of sugar in with our blended sugar
get started get that distributed and
then we'll just add our second another
five pound bag and you can see why I'm
using the big pot it's one of the few
things that will hold all this
and continue to fold that in again to
incorporate all that lemon zest and
smelt oh i thought those phone is that
salt no why don't you taste it sugar
I'll taste it yes with wine I'm 11 any
right won't you smell it and that really
that should just about do it will place
that sugar on top of newspaper that sits
across the top of the or the uppermost
top bars in the hive we will put in a
shim in this case we have shoes for the
hives that will allow us to put a
five-pound measure of sugar on top and
then put the tops back on with the smell
of the sugar the lemony smell of the
sugar the be you should sensed there and
eat through the newspaper and have
access to it when they need it for for
their food stores if they run low in
this very cold winter which right now
it's blowing about 20 miles an hour
outside and it is very chilly so I'm
thinking about the bees and praying that
they survive thanks so much for
supporting our website WWDC honeybees
calm and our mission to get more bees on
more rooftops in washington DC